# Skillbuilder, the ultimate how-to AI
Josue Alvarado, Emmanuel Borishade, Jason England, Tommy McClernon

Skillbuilder is the ultimate how-to guide for any task you can think of.
Utilizing a powerful AI, SkillBuilder provides step-by-step instructions for a
wide range of tasks, from basic home repairs to complex software programming.
Whether you're a beginner or an expert, SkillBuilder has something for you.
With its user-friendly interface and easy-to-follow instructions, you'll be
able to tackle any project with confidence. Try SkillBuilder today and see
how it can help you build your skills and accomplish your goals.

The app includes various features for chatting with Skillbuilder, delivered
in the familiar texting format. There are also voice chat options, as well
as buttons for sharing, clearing and canceling chats canceling. Skillbuilder
can also provide links to relevant videos, as well as generate, or “imagine,”
images. All chats, images, and settings are saved locally on the device and are
accessible through the quick settings menu. Our app is designed to be
user-friendly, engaging, and easy to navigate, with a clear focus on providing
helpful responses and informative content. We believe that our product will
be an innovative addition to the conversational interface market and look
forward to seeing it in the hands of users.

Just open the app and start typing to talk to Skillbuilder!
* Ask Skillbuilder how to do something, and Skillbuilder will answer!
  - can give step-by-step instructions!
  - can provide youtube links for video demonstrations!

* Use keyword "imagine" and Skillbuilder will give you an image!

* Press the microphone button to switch to voice chat!
  - you speak to Skillbuilder, and Skillbuilder Speaks back!


**note: This is a Keyless version of our Senior Capstone project: Skillbuilder,**
**available for public use.**
Built using flutter/dart, fully supports android and apple devices.
Limited support for Windows & Edge.


## TO USE
  **Insert Google/Youtube API key and OpenAI/ChatGPT API key in following files:**
   - *youtubeAPI.dart (line 10)*
   - *chatAPI.dart (line 6)*

 to build run > flutter run --no-sound-null-safety



## COMPONENTS LIST

### Basic Usage
  When the user is on the homepage of the app, there is a text
  box at the bottom of the screen with a send button. Entering
  text into this box and pressing send will prompt a response to
  the text from the chatGPT API, modified to fit a how-to
  context.
*************************************************

### Clear/Stop/Collapse Options - JA
  The user may want to start fresh, clearing the screen of any old chats,
  or cancel prompts early. They may also be on a non-mobile device with
  a virtual keyboard. 3 Buttons for these features are added at the bottom
  of the screen around the text input area:

  1. Clear: [located in the bottom right corner (shaped like a trash can)]
  will clear the screen of all chats, however chats will still be saved in the
  “Last Chats” History, found in the settings menu.

  2. Cancel: [located at the bottom middle of the screen] will cancel any
  responses being generated by Skillbuilder.

  3. Collapse: [located to the right of the send button (shaped as down arrow)]
   will collapse any active virtual keyboards.
*************************************************

### Voice Features - EB
  On the homepage, there is a microphone button located on the bottom left.
  Clicking this button will activate voice chat options, replacing the
  bottom row with 4 buttons:  
  1. Back: will re-enable text-based options.

  2. Speak: will activate the device microphone (if permission is granted),
      and any words detected will be used to prompt Skillbuilder.
      Skillbuilder will then respond, first displaying the response as text,
      then finally speaking back the response.

  3. Stop: will stop any listening or speaking taking place.

  4. Repeat: will cause Skillbuilder to repeat the last thing that was said
      (if anything was said).
*************************************************

### Chat Persistance - JA, JE
  Chat conversations are saved locally to the device, and can be
  cleared in the User Settings Page.
*************************************************

### Share Options - TM
  Responses from Skillbuilder can be shared!
  Pressing the share button located on the right side middle of
  Skillbuilder’s response will open devices share options.
*************************************************

### Video Options - EB
  Skillbuilder can also provide links to related Youtube videos!
  Pressing the video button located at the bottom of Skillbuilder’s response
  opens up a scrollable window added to the bottom of the response, where
  videos related to the prompt are displayed.
  Clicking the button again will close this window.
*************************************************

### Imaging Options -JA
  When in text-only mode, use keyword “imagine”, and Skillbuilder will
  generate an image based on the prompt. These images are saved in the
  “Last Images” section of the menu, and from here they can also be shared.
  *Note: this is a text-only feature*
*************************************************

### Available Settings - JE
  Pressing the 3 lines in the upper left corner will open the quick settings
  menu, where users can access 3 pages:
  1. Last Chats: where all chat history can be viewed.

  2. Last Images: where all image history can be viewed and images
  can be shared.

  3. User Settings: where users can access preferences and advanced settings.
*************************************************************************


## SETTINGS

  **User Settings: Preferences**
  The user has the option of choosing between light mode and dark
  mode themes. By default dark mode is active, however tapping the switch
  will deactivate dark mode and activate light mode.

 **User Settings: Advanced**
  1. Clear Chat History
  2. Clear Image History
  3. Change API Key
  4. Change Temperature
  5. Change GPT version

*Clear History:* Users can clear their app history with two options:
  Clear Chat History, Clear Image History.
Tapping either of these will permanently delete the corresponding data.

*Change API Key:* If users wish to utilize their own API key,
possibly to unlock additional or paid versions of GPT APIs, they
can add their key here. It will not be shared with app
developers and is only saved locally to the device.

*Change Temperature:* The temperature parameter in the ChatGPT API
controls the level of randomness in generated responses, with
higher values producing more novel and unpredictable text, and
lower values generating more conservative and predictable
answers.

*Change GPT Version:* there are various versions of chatGTP’s API
available, and some respond differently than others. Users can
experiment and find the version that is best for them. Currently
only davinci–003 and davinci-002 are fully supported.
